---
title: Mtrace Documentation
cascade:
  type: docs
---

Welcome to the **Mtrace** documentation, a CLI tool designed to create and run end-to-end tests within a distributed system by collecting traces in [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) format. This documentation provides everything you need to understand the usage, core concepts, and architecture of **Mtrace**.

## What is Mtrace?
**Mtrace** is a command-line tool that allows developers to create end-to-end tests for distributed systems, collecting and analyzing the traces generated by applications.

The goal of **Mtrace** is to initiate a **trace** via a supported **trigger** (such as *HTTP* or *gRPC*) and to collect it through an **observability backend** (like Jaeger, OpenObserve, etc.).
Therefore, it is the developer's responsibility to ensure that all traces are sent to the **observability backend** and to configure **Mtrace** to fetch them correctly.

Once the process of triggering and collecting traces is defined, developers can perform various assertions to verify whether the traces meet expectations.

Additionally, before each test, it is possible to define commands to set up the environment and clean it up upon completion.

Finally, it is essential to note that **Mtrace** only supports trace analysis in the **OTel** format. Therefore, if you wish to use an observability backend that does not natively support this format, or if you publish traces in a different format, you must first convert the traces to the **OTel** format.

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="install" title="Installation" icon="download" >}}
  {{< card link="configure" title="Configuration" icon="adjustments" >}}
  {{< card link="concepts" title="Concepts" icon="light-bulb" >}}
  {{< card link="commands" title="Commands" icon="terminal" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
